README.md, before:

# PocketBase & Litestream Example

This repo is a starting spot to use PocketBase as a framework with Go that is backed up and restored via Litestream.

## Why does this exist?

PocketBase is an amazing project that can accomplish 99% of what a side-hustle, POC, and even startup needs. However, when using as a framework, we need to be able update code without needing to manually back up the DB file. I wanted to deploy my code in a container to [Fly.io](https://fly.io) but still utilize the magic of Litestream. This repo allows you to copy/paste the starting files to do just that.

While it isn't strictly necessary, I've also added volume to the fly machine.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

You'll need to have an S3-compatible store to connect to. Please see the [Litestream Guides](https://litestream.io/guides/) to get set up on your preferred object store.

## Local Development

Since this is using PocketBase as a Go framework, you can run this locally with `go run main.go serve --http "localhost:8080"`

You will want to do this to not use your Litestream backed up DB in development.

## Deploying to Fly.io

First, ensure that you have a `.auth.env` file with the following variables:
```
LITESTREAM_ACCESS_KEY_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
LITESTREAM_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
REPLICA_URL="s3://YOUR_S3_BUCKET_NAME/db"
```

Next, publish your environment file to Fly.io.
```bash
cat .auth.env | fly secrets import
```

Finally, deploy to Fly.io
```
fly deploy --local-only
```

## Restoring from a backup
First, make sure you have litestream installed locally.
Next, reconstruct the replica and poke around with sqlite3.
```
./do 'litestream restore -o db.sqlite $REPLICA_URL'

# Poke around
sqlite3 db.sqlite
```

Commit message:

Update README to include docker instructions

README.md, after:

# PocketBase & Litestream Example

This repo is a starting spot to use PocketBase as a framework with Go that is backed up and restored via Litestream.

## Why does this exist?

PocketBase is an amazing project that can accomplish 99% of what a side-hustle, POC, and even startup needs. However, when using as a framework, we need to be able update code without needing to manually back up the DB file. I wanted to deploy my code in a container to [Fly.io](https://fly.io) but still utilize the magic of Litestream. This repo allows you to copy/paste the starting files to do just that.

While it isn't strictly necessary, I've also added volume to the fly machine.

## Usage

### Prerequisites
You'll need to have an S3-compatible store to connect to. Please see the [Litestream Guides](https://litestream.io/guides/) to get set up on your preferred object store.
Once you have credentials, store them in an environment file called `.auth.env` with the following contents.
```
LITESTREAM_ACCESS_KEY_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
LITESTREAM_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
REPLICA_URL="s3://YOUR_S3_BUCKET_NAME/db"
```

## Local Development
Since this is using PocketBase as a Go framework, you can run this locally with `go run main.go serve --http "localhost:8080"`
You will want to do this to not use your Litestream backed up DB in development.

If you do want to use litestream and connect to your production database, then you can do that like this...
```
# BEWARE!
# You should only have one application server running at a time or you may corrupt your database!
mkdir -p pb_data
docker build -t pocketbase-litestream .
docker run --env-file .auth.env -p 8080:8080 -v pb_data:/usr/local/bin/pb_data/ pocketbase-litestream
```

## Deploying to Fly.io

First, ensure that you have a `.auth.env` file with the following variables:
```
LITESTREAM_ACCESS_KEY_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
LITESTREAM_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
REPLICA_URL="s3://YOUR_S3_BUCKET_NAME/db"
```

Next, publish your environment file to Fly.io.
```bash
cat .auth.env | fly secrets import
```

Finally, deploy to Fly.io
```
fly deploy --local-only
```

## Restoring from a backup
First, make sure you have litestream installed locally.
Next, reconstruct the replica and poke around with sqlite3.
```
./do 'litestream restore -o db.sqlite $REPLICA_URL'

# Poke around
sqlite3 db.sqlite
```
